Incidental to this project was feedback provided to the climate agencies and other groups providing supporting information and frameworks. Such feedback will reduce problems for other researchers and may considered part of the project's documentation and legacy. Feedback is detailed below.

An inconsistency between the USHCNv2 Monthly Data's documentation and file names was identified. The inconsistency prevented reliable matching between USHCN climate stations and their data; the USHCN corrected this problem.

The USHCNv2 Monthly Data's documentation concerning the calculation of annual means was found to be ambiguous; it was unclear whether annual means were calculated as a separate product or as the mean of a given year's monthly means. The USHCN has resolved this ambiguity in their documentation.

A less important problem is the location information for the USHCN stations. The USHCN releases GPS coordinates for the stations in decimal degrees to three digits of accuracy and does not document the geodesic reference of the coordinates. Ada, MN's climate station, for instance, is located at 47.299N, 96.516W. At this level of accuracy, it is possible to locate the station to within 250-350 feet. Our results are robust against such small inaccuracies in siting, but this lack of precision could confound algorithms designed to automatically unbias station data. The USHCN did not indicate plans to improve the accuracy of their location data.

Canada's Climate Services' National Climate Data and Information Archive provides Canadian Daily Climate Data (CDCD) in a compressed binary format along with a DOS program to extract the data. This program is not well-suited to mass analysis of climate data, requiring the individual extraction of each station's data. Upon request, Climate Services provided the format of the binary files. The file they provided had been written in 1993 and contained multiple errors and omissions which had gone uncorrected. The CDCD data is divided into climate regions, though no map of these is available in any public archive. Upon request, Climate Services provided a low-quality map and, after another request, a high-quality map. An updated set of documentation including this map and resolving the errors and omissions in the original documentation has been produced. This was provided to Climate Services and will be made publically available on this project's website.

Environment Canada, provides a set of monthly climate data for ~200 temperature stations and ~400 precipitation stations. The documentation for this data set, the Adjusted and Homogenized Canadian Climate Data (AHCCD), does not specify the units for the data, which is broken up into many different files. In this case of precipitation data, this prevents automated processing of the data. In the case of temperature data, there is ambiguity and this prevents any processing at all. A request for clarification was made in late July 2011, but has not yet been returned.

The OpenLayers project is developing a JavaScript framework to facilitate the dynamic display of GIS data on websites. Version 2.11, Release Candidate 1 (2.11RC1) was used extensively in developing the analysis tools used in the later stages of this project along with the project's website. To reduce visual clutter, the climate stations are grouped by proximity when they are displayed on the map; however, it is sometimes necessary to break these groups apart. OpenLayers did not provide a way of doing this, so a module was developed. It is being evaluated for inclusion in Version 2.12.
